addons/ecommerce_seo_translator_pro/README.md, before:

# E-Commerce SEO Translator Pro

**AI-powered SEO description generation, translation, and meta-tag creation for Odoo products.**

## Features

✅ **AI Description Generation** - Generate SEO-optimized product descriptions (150-250 words) using GPT-4  
✅ **Contextual Translation** - Translate descriptions while respecting brand glossary  
✅ **Meta-Tag Generation** - Automatically generate SEO meta-tags (title, description, keywords)  
✅ **SERP Preview** - Preview search engine result snippets  
✅ **Rate Limiting & Resilience** - Automatic retry, backoff, and circuit breaker protection  
✅ **Audit Trail** - Complete history of all generations with GDPR compliance  
✅ **Batch Operations** - Generate for multiple products at once  
✅ **Glossary Management** - Maintain technical terms for accurate translations  

## Installation

### Prerequisites

- **Odoo**: 19.0 or later
- **Python**: 3.10+
- **OpenAI API Key**: Get one at [platform.openai.com/api-keys](https://platform.openai.com/api-keys)

### Setup

```bash
# 1. Copy module to addons
cp -r ecommerce_seo_translator_pro /path/to/odoo/addons/

# 2. Install dependencies
pip install -r ecommerce_seo_translator_pro/requirements.txt

# 3. Restart Odoo
./odoo-bin -u all

# 4. Install module via Odoo UI
# Go to Apps → Search "E-Commerce SEO Translator Pro" → Install
```

## Configuration

### Step 1: Set OpenAI API Key

**IMPORTANT:** The API key must be configured manually in Odoo using the Python shell.

**Via Odoo Python Console:**
```bash
./odoo-bin shell -d your_database_name
```

Then run:
```python
env['ir.config_parameter'].sudo().set_param(
    'ecommerce_seo_translator_pro.openai_api_key',
    'sk-your-api-key-here'
)
print("✓ API Key configured successfully")
```

**Via Database Query (Direct SQL - Advanced Users Only):**
```sql
INSERT INTO ir_config_parameter (key, value) 
VALUES ('ecommerce_seo_translator_pro.openai_api_key', 'sk-your-api-key-here')
ON DUPLICATE KEY UPDATE value = 'sk-your-api-key-here';
```

**Where to get your API Key:**
1. Go to [platform.openai.com/api-keys](https://platform.openai.com/api-keys)
2. Click "Create new secret key"
3. Copy the key (format: `sk-...`)
4. Store it securely - never commit to version control

### Step 2: Verify Configuration

Test if the API key is correctly configured:
```python
./odoo-bin shell -d your_database_name
```

```python
api_key = env['ir.config_parameter'].sudo().get_param('ecommerce_seo_translator_pro.openai_api_key', '')
if api_key:
    print(f"✓ API Key found: {api_key[:10]}...{api_key[-4:]}")
else:
    print("✗ API Key NOT configured")
```

## Usage

### Generate Description

1. Go to **Products** (Inventory or Website)
2. Open a product
3. Go to **AI SEO Tools** tab
4. Fill in optional fields:
   - **Technical Specifications**: Additional specs for AI to consider
   - **Keywords**: Comma-separated keywords to incorporate
   - **Tone**: Professional, Casual, or Technical
5. Click **Generate SEO Description**
6. AI generates description and meta-tags
7. Review in preview
8. Click **Save** to confirm

### Translate Descriptions

1. Open a product (must be in primary language)
2. Go to **AI SEO Tools** tab
3. Click **Translate All**
4. AI translates to all active languages using glossary
5. Translations are saved automatically

### Generate Meta-Tags

1. Open a product
2. Go to **AI SEO Tools** tab
3. Click **Generate Meta-Tags**
4. AI generates:
   - Meta Title (max 60 chars)
   - Meta Description (max 160 chars)
   - Meta Keywords (comma-separated)

### Batch Generation

**Via Odoo UI:**
1. Go to **Products** list
2. Select multiple products (checkboxes)
3. Actions dropdown → Generate Descriptions / Generate Meta-Tags / Translate

**Via API:**
```json
POST /seo-ai/batch-generate
{
  "product_ids": [1, 2, 3],
  "action": "description"
}
```

## API Reference

### Generate Description

```json
POST /seo-ai/batch-generate
{
  "product_ids": [123],
  "action": "description"
}
```

**Response:**
```json
{
  "success": true,
  "message": "Batch generation completed for 1 products",
  "count": 1
}
```

### Get Meta Preview (SERP Snippet)

```json
POST /seo-ai/meta-preview
{
  "product_id": 123
}
```

**Response:**
```json
{
  "success": true,
  "title": "Premium Product | Best Quality",
  "url": "/shop/p/123",
  "description": "Discover exceptional quality with our premium product...",
  "keywords": "product, quality, premium",
  "last_generated": "2025-01-15T10:30:00"
}
```

### Get Generation History

```json
GET /seo-ai/history?product_id=123&limit=10
```

**Response:**
```json
{
  "success": true,
  "history": [
    {
      "id": 1,
      "action": "description_generation",
      "status": "success",
      "create_date": "2025-01-15T10:30:00",
      "user": "Admin",
      "duration_ms": 3200
    }
  ],
  "count": 1
}
```

## Glossary Management

### Add Terms

1. Go to **Inventory → Products → Glossary Terms** (or via Menu)
2. Click **Create**
3. Fill in:
   - **English Term**: Original term (e.g., "warranty")
   - **Translation**: Translated term (e.g., "garanzia" for Italian)
   - **Language Code**: Target language (e.g., "it", "es", "fr")
   - **Category**: Product, Technical, Marketing, or Brand
4. Click **Save**

### View Glossary

- **By Language**: Filter by language code
- **By Category**: Filter by term category
- **Search**: Search by term or translation

**Note:** The glossary is used to maintain consistent terminology when translating product descriptions across languages.

## Troubleshooting

### No Results Generated

**Check:**
1. OpenAI API key is set and valid
2. API key has credits (check platform.openai.com/account/billing)
3. Internet connection is working
4. Check product has name and description

**Debug:**
- Go to product → AI SEO Tools tab
- Check **Debug Information** field for error messages

### Translation Not Working

**Check:**
1. Product has translations enabled in Odoo
2. Active languages are configured
3. Glossary has entries for target language (optional)

### Rate Limit Exceeded

**Solution:**
- Wait 1 minute before trying again
- Rate limit is 5 requests per minute per user

### API Key Error

**Solution:**
1. Get new key from platform.openai.com/api-keys
2. Ensure no spaces in key
3. Test key in Python:
   ```python
   from openai import OpenAI
   client = OpenAI(api_key='sk-...')
   models = client.models.list()
   ```

## Security

✅ **No Raw SQL** - Uses Odoo ORM only  
✅ **Field Validation** - Only allowed fields accepted  
✅ **Audit Logging** - All operations logged  
✅ **GDPR Compliant** - Content masking option  
✅ **Access Control** - Group-based permissions  
✅ **API Key Safety** - Keys stored securely  

## Permissions

- **SEO AI User**: Can generate descriptions, translations, meta-tags
- **SEO AI Manager**: Full access including glossary management and audit logs

## Performance

| Operation | Speed | Cost |
|-----------|-------|------|
| Description Generation | ~3-5 seconds | ~$0.03 |
| Translation | ~2-3 seconds | ~$0.02 |
| Meta-Tags | ~2-3 seconds | ~$0.02 |
| Batch (10 products) | ~30-40 seconds | ~$0.30 |

## Limitations

⚠️ **Note:**
- Max 50 characters for meta title (auto-truncated to 60)
- Max 160 characters for meta description
- Max 200 characters for meta keywords
- Works best with 150-250 word descriptions
- Requires paid OpenAI API (GPT-4)

## Support

For issues, questions, or feature requests, refer to the main project documentation at `../README.md`.

## Version History

- **v19.0.1.0.0** - Initial release with description, translation, and meta-tag generation

## License

LGPL-3 - See LICENSE file

Commit message:

fix(ecommerce_seo_translator_pro): Improve translate all functionality
- Add robust error handling and validation for "Translate All" button
- Verify description exists before attempting translation
- Check for at least 2 active languages in system
- Add granular error reporting showing which languages failed
- Implement per-language exception handling to continue on individual failures
- Add detailed logging for debugging translation issues
- Update README with troubleshooting guide for translation problems

Improvements:
- Better user feedback when translation prerequisites not met
- Prevent silent failures by raising informative UserError
- Track and report individual language translation failures
- Support partial success (some languages succeed, some fail)

Documentation:
- Add comprehensive doc strings to all Python files
- Document all public methods with args, returns, and examples
- Add module-level docstrings explaining purpose and features
- Comment all model classes and key business logic

Files:
- product_template.py: Enhanced translate method with full error handling
- ai_service.py: Comprehensive docstrings for all AI operations
- history.py, glossary.py: Complete audit and glossary documentation
- website_controller.py: REST API endpoint documentation
- README.md: Updated troubleshooting guide for translations

addons/ecommerce_seo_translator_pro/README.md, after:

# E-Commerce SEO Translator Pro

**AI-powered SEO description generation, translation, and meta-tag creation for Odoo products.**

## Features

✅ **AI Description Generation** - Generate SEO-optimized product descriptions (150-250 words) using GPT-4  
✅ **Contextual Translation** - Translate descriptions while respecting brand glossary  
✅ **Meta-Tag Generation** - Automatically generate SEO meta-tags (title, description, keywords)  
✅ **SERP Preview** - Preview search engine result snippets  
✅ **Rate Limiting & Resilience** - Automatic retry, backoff, and circuit breaker protection  
✅ **Audit Trail** - Complete history of all generations with GDPR compliance  
✅ **Batch Operations** - Generate for multiple products at once  
✅ **Glossary Management** - Maintain technical terms for accurate translations  

## Installation

### Prerequisites

- **Odoo**: 19.0 or later
- **Python**: 3.10+
- **OpenAI API Key**: Get one at [platform.openai.com/api-keys](https://platform.openai.com/api-keys)

### Setup

```bash
# 1. Copy module to addons
cp -r ecommerce_seo_translator_pro /path/to/odoo/addons/

# 2. Install dependencies
pip install -r ecommerce_seo_translator_pro/requirements.txt

# 3. Restart Odoo
./odoo-bin -u all

# 4. Install module via Odoo UI
# Go to Apps → Search "E-Commerce SEO Translator Pro" → Install
```

## Configuration

### Step 1: Set OpenAI API Key

**IMPORTANT:** The API key must be configured manually in Odoo using the Python shell.

**Via Odoo Python Console:**
```bash
./odoo-bin shell -d your_database_name
```

Then run:
```python
env['ir.config_parameter'].sudo().set_param(
    'ecommerce_seo_translator_pro.openai_api_key',
    'sk-your-api-key-here'
)
print("✓ API Key configured successfully")
```

**Via Database Query (Direct SQL - Advanced Users Only):**
```sql
INSERT INTO ir_config_parameter (key, value) 
VALUES ('ecommerce_seo_translator_pro.openai_api_key', 'sk-your-api-key-here')
ON DUPLICATE KEY UPDATE value = 'sk-your-api-key-here';
```

**Where to get your API Key:**
1. Go to [platform.openai.com/api-keys](https://platform.openai.com/api-keys)
2. Click "Create new secret key"
3. Copy the key (format: `sk-...`)
4. Store it securely - never commit to version control

### Step 2: Verify Configuration

Test if the API key is correctly configured:
```python
./odoo-bin shell -d your_database_name
```

```python
api_key = env['ir.config_parameter'].sudo().get_param('ecommerce_seo_translator_pro.openai_api_key', '')
if api_key:
    print(f"✓ API Key found: {api_key[:10]}...{api_key[-4:]}")
else:
    print("✗ API Key NOT configured")
```

## Usage

### Generate Description

1. Go to **Products** (Inventory or Website)
2. Open a product
3. Go to **AI SEO Tools** tab
4. Fill in optional fields:
   - **Technical Specifications**: Additional specs for AI to consider
   - **Keywords**: Comma-separated keywords to incorporate
   - **Tone**: Professional, Casual, or Technical
5. Click **Generate SEO Description**
6. AI generates description and meta-tags
7. Review in preview
8. Click **Save** to confirm

### Translate Descriptions

1. Open a product (must be in primary language)
2. Go to **AI SEO Tools** tab
3. Click **Translate All**
4. AI translates to all active languages using glossary
5. Translations are saved automatically

### Generate Meta-Tags

1. Open a product
2. Go to **AI SEO Tools** tab
3. Click **Generate Meta-Tags**
4. AI generates:
   - Meta Title (max 60 chars)
   - Meta Description (max 160 chars)
   - Meta Keywords (comma-separated)

### Batch Generation

**Via Odoo UI:**
1. Go to **Products** list
2. Select multiple products (checkboxes)
3. Actions dropdown → Generate Descriptions / Generate Meta-Tags / Translate

**Via API:**
```json
POST /seo-ai/batch-generate
{
  "product_ids": [1, 2, 3],
  "action": "description"
}
```

## API Reference

### Generate Description

```json
POST /seo-ai/batch-generate
{
  "product_ids": [123],
  "action": "description"
}
```

**Response:**
```json
{
  "success": true,
  "message": "Batch generation completed for 1 products",
  "count": 1
}
```

### Get Meta Preview (SERP Snippet)

```json
POST /seo-ai/meta-preview
{
  "product_id": 123
}
```

**Response:**
```json
{
  "success": true,
  "title": "Premium Product | Best Quality",
  "url": "/shop/p/123",
  "description": "Discover exceptional quality with our premium product...",
  "keywords": "product, quality, premium",
  "last_generated": "2025-01-15T10:30:00"
}
```

### Get Generation History

```json
GET /seo-ai/history?product_id=123&limit=10
```

**Response:**
```json
{
  "success": true,
  "history": [
    {
      "id": 1,
      "action": "description_generation",
      "status": "success",
      "create_date": "2025-01-15T10:30:00",
      "user": "Admin",
      "duration_ms": 3200
    }
  ],
  "count": 1
}
```

## Glossary Management

### Add Terms

1. Go to **Inventory → Products → Glossary Terms** (or via Menu)
2. Click **Create**
3. Fill in:
   - **English Term**: Original term (e.g., "warranty")
   - **Translation**: Translated term (e.g., "garanzia" for Italian)
   - **Language Code**: Target language (e.g., "it", "es", "fr")
   - **Category**: Product, Technical, Marketing, or Brand
4. Click **Save**

### View Glossary

- **By Language**: Filter by language code
- **By Category**: Filter by term category
- **Search**: Search by term or translation

**Note:** The glossary is used to maintain consistent terminology when translating product descriptions across languages.

## Troubleshooting

### No Results Generated

**Check:**
1. OpenAI API key is set and valid
2. API key has credits (check platform.openai.com/account/billing)
3. Internet connection is working
4. Check product has name and description

**Debug:**
- Go to product → AI SEO Tools tab
- Check **Debug Information** field for error messages

### Translation Not Working (Translate All Button)

**Check:**
1. Product has a description or AI-generated description
2. **At least 2 active languages configured** in Settings → Languages
3. Click "Translate All" and wait for the operation to complete
4. Product will be updated with translations in other languages
5. Switch to the translated language in the product form to verify

**Common Issues:**
- **"No other active languages available"**: You need at least 2 active languages. Go to Settings → Languages and activate at least one additional language besides your current one.
- **No visible changes after clicking Translate All**: This is normal - translations are saved to the product record in the target language context. Switch language in the product form to view them.
- **Glossary has entries for target language (optional)**: The glossary helps preserve brand terms during translation

### Rate Limit Exceeded

**Solution:**
- Wait 1 minute before trying again
- Rate limit is 5 requests per minute per user

### API Key Error

**Solution:**
1. Get new key from platform.openai.com/api-keys
2. Ensure no spaces in key
3. Test key in Python:
   ```python
   from openai import OpenAI
   client = OpenAI(api_key='sk-...')
   models = client.models.list()
   ```

## Security

✅ **No Raw SQL** - Uses Odoo ORM only  
✅ **Field Validation** - Only allowed fields accepted  
✅ **Audit Logging** - All operations logged  
✅ **GDPR Compliant** - Content masking option  
✅ **Access Control** - Group-based permissions  
✅ **API Key Safety** - Keys stored securely  

## Permissions

- **SEO AI User**: Can generate descriptions, translations, meta-tags
- **SEO AI Manager**: Full access including glossary management and audit logs

## Performance

| Operation | Speed | Cost |
|-----------|-------|------|
| Description Generation | ~3-5 seconds | ~$0.03 |
| Translation | ~2-3 seconds | ~$0.02 |
| Meta-Tags | ~2-3 seconds | ~$0.02 |
| Batch (10 products) | ~30-40 seconds | ~$0.30 |

## Limitations

⚠️ **Note:**
- Max 50 characters for meta title (auto-truncated to 60)
- Max 160 characters for meta description
- Max 200 characters for meta keywords
- Works best with 150-250 word descriptions
- Requires paid OpenAI API (GPT-4)

## Support

For issues, questions, or feature requests, refer to the main project documentation at `../README.md`.

## Version History

- **v19.0.1.1.0** - Fix: Improved "Translate All" error handling and logging, better validation of required languages
- **v19.0.1.0.0** - Initial release with description, translation, and meta-tag generation

## License

LGPL-3 - See LICENSE file
